- [Instructor] Now we're going to Dockerize
the Explore California application itself.
We will create a Docker image
that includes a Linux operating system,
Java JDK version 8
and the explorecali jar.
In this video, we will run the default profile
which interacts with the H2 Database
so a container of this image can run completely standalone.
First, let's make sure that our jar
for the explorecali application has been built.
So, that built our jar, let's actually make sure
in the target folder.
And that's our jar there
and now we have a Docker file
that was created in the folder.
Let's look at that.
So, this is sort of the configuration
for the setting up of the Docker image,
so the starting point
is we already have a Linux operating system.
From that we're gonna use the Java 8 image,
our WORKDIR is slash,
then we're going to add our jar
to the image
and we're going to expose port 8080
and that entry point is sort of the equivalent
of a command line,
so we're actually going to run Java
with the option -jar
and then provide the actual jar file name
which is now within the image.
So, now we're going to invoke another Docker command
to create the image.
So, it's downloading the Java 8 image.
It says it's successful.
Let's actually take a look at the images.
And we see we now have an explorecali image
with the latest tag.
Lastly, let's run a container called ec-app
off of the explorecali image
and we'll publish port 8080 externally as the default port.
So, ec-app it will be the name of our container,
we're going to publish port 8080
to localhost, the 8080 port
within the container.
And then we're going to use the explorecali image.
Let's see if the container's there.
It looks like it's there.
The status is not saying that it exited.
We can actually look at the log
of that as it started up.
And that looks familiar, that seems like the logs
that we've seen at startup.
If there was a problem,
the status would be exited
and you wouldn't even be able to see the logs
because the image would not be running.
If you do have one that's stopped
or exited, not running,
you still have the ability to inspect the image
which gives you details.
So, this is general information about the image,
lots of details, like for example,
if you wanted to see what was actually run,
so if there was a typo here,
you put the wrong jar file name,
then you'd find out by running inspect.
And finally, let's actually try to invoke the tours API
which is now running as a Docker container.
And there's our tours.
Awesome, we've Dockerized our first application.
Let's clean up after ourselves
and stop and remove the image.